# Distinguishing between Strawberry and Non-Strawberry jam using IR data and machine learning

Strawberry jam, a beloved food item worldwide, faces the threat of counterfeiting and adulteration. Ensuring its authenticity is crucial for both consumers and producers. In this analysis, I explore the feasibility of distinguishing between real and fake or non-strawberry jam using infrared (IR) spectroscopy data coupled with machine learning techniques. IR spectroscopy offers a non-destructive and rapid method for characterizing molecular compositions, making it ideal for food authentication. By leveraging advanced machine learning algorithms, I aim to develop a reliable model capable of accurately discerning authentic strawberry jam from its counterfeit counterparts. This work shows an easy approach to analyze IR-spectral data and might hold significant implications for food quality control and consumer trust in the authenticity of food products.  
Generally speaking I used a Decision Tree and a Logistic regression model from *sklearn* to classify IR-spectras. Then I selected wavelengths of interest considering feature importance. Finally I applied a statistical test from *scipy* on the two set intersections of the 10 most informative features yielding 3 highly informative wavenumbers for further potential analysis.  
The data was obtained during my bachelors degree in biotechnology at the University of applied Sciences [Hochschule Manheim](https://www.hs-mannheim.de/) in purpose to introduce students to multivariate dataanalyses. I am aware that this demonstration is probably not the optimal result, further improvement of the statistical models could be achieved by testing more models, hyperparameter-tuning, more advanced preprocessing of the IR data or the consideration of class-imbalances. Nevertheless, this notebook could serve as a valuable resource for beginners, particularly for introducing students primarily focused on practical laboratory work to the potential applications of machine learning within their field.  
The analysis is found in the jupyter-notebook **Analysis.ipynb**  
To install all required dependencies download anaconda and run: 
```
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
